W-15563418-AsyncAPI-in-Studio-CP (#529)
mulesoft/docs-studio: modules/ROOT/pages/api-development-studio.adoc

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="studio-asyncapi"]

> Ensure that your Mule applications always refer to a single source of truth for your API specifications. Design, publish, and implement your API specifications with the following workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your Mule applications always refer to a single source of truth for your API specifications. Design, publish, and implement your API specifications with the following workflow:
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

. Design an API specification. +

> You can either xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-visual-editor.adoc[create and publish an API specification with the Visual Editor] or xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-raml-editor.adoc[with the Text Editor].

Reviewer: I wonder if making the link text just the editor part might be more clear and parallel?

You can create and publish an API specification with either the xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-visual-editor.adoc[Visual Editor] or the xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-raml-editor.adoc[Text Editor].

Author: I like it! Thanks!

+
You can also xref:create-api-specification-studio.adoc[create an API specification project in Studio and sync it with Design Center].
. Publish your API specification to Exchange. 
+
Make your newly designed API available to your entire organization as an Exchange dependency. As you change your API, you can publish new versions of your API specifications to Exchange. See xref:exchange::to-change-raml-version.adoc#best-practices-api-versioning[best practices for API versioning].
. Import the API specification from Exchange to Studio. +

> You can either xref:import-api-specification-exchange.adoc[import an API specification from Exchange] or xref:import-api-specification-maven.adoc[from Maven]. Studio imports your API specification as a dependency. This means that your Mule application project now holds a reference to the specific API version that you’re implementing. Studio checks your API and notifies you when there’s a new version available.

Reviewer: Same comment as line 11.

Author: OK! Thanks!

> You can either xref:import-api-specification-exchange.adoc[import an API specification from Exchange] or xref:import-api-specification-maven.adoc[from Maven]. Studio imports your API specification as a dependency. This means that your Mule application project now holds a reference to the specific API version that you’re implementing. Studio checks your API and notifies you when there’s a new version available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import an API specification from either from xref:import-api-specification-exchange.adoc[Exchange] or xref:import-api-specification-maven.adoc[Maven]. Studio imports your API specification as a dependency, which means that your Mule application project now holds a reference to the specific API version that you’re implementing. Studio checks your API and notifies you when a new version is available.
```

Reviewer: is "holds a reference" common terminology?

Reviewer: What about, "adds" or "includes"?

Reviewer: (Avoid using "This" as the subject of a sentence.)

Author: OK! Thanks!

> You can use this workflow for OAS and RAML API specifications. It requires Studio 7.8.x or later, and Mule runtime engine 4.1.4 or later.

Reviewer: Any way to avoid the "It" as the subject of the sentence?

Author: Sure! Let's see if my rewording works.
Thanks!

> From Studio 7.18 and later, you can xref:import-api-specification-exchange.adoc[import an AsyncAPI specification from Exchange] and implement it in your Mule project.

Reviewer: From -> With or Using

Author: OK! Thanks!

== API Specifications as Exchange Dependencies

> Manage APIs for your Mule application as you manage the modules that compose your application. By leveraging Exchange as your unified repository for all your Mule application dependencies, you can check the latest versions of your dependencies. This ensures that your application is up-to-date with the latest API requirements.

Reviewer: does "as you manage" mean "the same way you manage"?

Reviewer: Avoid "This ensures". Suggest 
...dependencies, ensuring that your application is up-to-date with the latest API requirements.

Author: OK! Thanks!

Because the implementation of your API can change with each iteration, you must keep track so that you can update your Mule application to match newer specifications. To help you track these changes, treat your API specifications as dependencies of your project. This way, every time the specification design changes, the API publishes a new API version that you can manage from Studio. You can also update your application to match the new API version.

> Each API version that you import from Exchange isn’t stored as a local copy on your project’s structure but as a reference to the API version dependency in Exchange. By referencing the API version in Exchange, Studio can periodically check the status of the version and notify you when a new version is available.

Reviewer: Can you put what it **is** (rather than what it isn't) first?

Author: Great catch! Thanks!

=== Scaffold AsyncAPI, RAML, and OAS API Specifications

Design your API using AsyncAPI, OAS, or RAML specifications in Anypoint Design Center:

* xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-visual-editor.adoc[]
* xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-raml-editor.adoc[]

[NOTE]

> You can design AsyncAPI in Design Center with the xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-raml-editor.adoc[Text Editor]. 

Reviewer: Missing a word here? "an AsyncAPI API"? "an async API"? "using AsyncAPI"?

Author: 🤦 I didn't see that! Great catch! Thanks!

When you import these specifications as dependencies of your flows, you can automatically generate (scaffold) the flows in your canvas based on the endpoints described in the API specification.

Studio leverages APIkit to scaffold the flow and make it easier for you to start developing a Mule application from an API specification.

[NOTE]

> Studio doesn’t currently support scaffolding API specs that reference OAS, JSON schema, or AsyncAPI fragments imported from Exchange as project dependencies. To scaffold a spec with these fragments, you must provide the fragments inline within the spec or through fragment files that you create manually within your project directory. This limitation doesn’t affect RAML fragments from Exchange, which are fully supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studio doesn’t currently support scaffolding API specs that reference OAS, JSON schema, or AsyncAPI fragments imported from Exchange as project dependencies. To scaffold a spec with these fragments, you must provide the fragments inline within the spec or through fragment files that you create manually within your project directory. This limitation doesn’t affect RAML fragments from Exchange, which are fully supported.
```

== API Specifications as Local Copies in Your Projects

Import a RAML API specification either xref:import-api-specification-local-file.adoc[from your hard drive] or xref:import-api-specification-design-center.adoc[directly from Design Center] into the `/src/main/api/` directory in the structure of your project. This process creates a local copy of the API in your project's structure. The imported API works as a standalone attachment to your project, meaning that every additional upgrade requires a manual import.

When the API imported as a local copy into your project's structure is updated outside your Studio environment, reimport the API into your project. Studio regenerates all the flows based on the updated specification. 

[NOTE]
Duplicated copies of your specifications can be created on your local drive. You can only keep RAML API specifications as local copies within your project's structure.

== API Specifications as API Specification Projects in Studio

> Start xref:create-api-specification-studio.adoc[an API specification project in Studio and sync it with Design Center]. Studio uses version control system (VCS) capabilities to keep your API specifications synchronized between your Studio workspace and Design Center.

Reviewer: I'm wondering about all these in-line links. Is there a reason you're doing it this way instead of as a "See..."? It's just a lot of maintenance with the hard-coded text.

Author: Why is it harder to maintain the hard-coded text if it is in-line? The sentence reads fine because it does not depend on the title of the target article.

Reviewer: I guess not. But, I guess the question is - do you want to send people to another document in the middle of a sentence?

Here are the guidelines:
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-links

Author: OK! I think I got it now. Let's see if my rewording works.
Thanks!

> Import an API specification from Design Center as an API specification project with VCS-enabled capabilities to edit your API specification using Studio and sync your changes with Design Center:

Reviewer: What is VCS?

Author: It's version control system (VCS), as explained in line 60.

Reviewer: Oops, I missed that!

Author: OK! Thanks!

. Design an API specification in Design Center. +

> You can either xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-visual-editor.adoc[create and publish an API specification with the Visual Editor] or xref:design-center::design-create-publish-api-raml-editor.adoc[with the Text Editor].

Reviewer: See previous comment about this link text.

Author: See my previous comment about hard-coded in-line text.

Reviewer: I meant specifically the suggestion I had about making just the "xxx Editor" the link text and making the links parallel.

https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-studio/pull/529#discussion_r1646770903

Author: OK! I got it now.
Thanks!

. Import the API specification from Design Center into Studio. +
You can import the API specification as an editable asset by xref:sync-api-projects-design-center.adoc[Synchronizing an API Specifications with Design Center].

You can also edit an API specification that you imported as an API dependency in your project:

. Import the API specification xref:import-api-specification-exchange.adoc[from Exchange to Studio]. +

> Studio imports your API specification as a dependency. This means that your Mule application project now holds a reference to the specific API version that you're implementing. Studio monitors your API and notifies you when there’s a new version available.

Reviewer: See previous comment on this content.

Author: OK! Thanks!

. Select the API specification imported in your project and xref:sync-imported-api-specifications-design-center.adoc[Edit your API specification from Studio] to later sync your changes to Design Center.

[NOTE]

> Studio uses the EGit plugin for the VCS feature of editing API specifications offline. Studio doesn't support the EGit plugin for Mule application projects that you track using your own VCS.

Reviewer: Is there a way to streamline "VCS feature of editing..."? Do you need to mention VCS in that sentence?

Author: Let's see if my rewording works.
Thanks!
